in today's English lesson we're going to
read a CNN news article together this
Advanced lesson will focus on the
essential vocabulary and grammar you
need to know not only to fully
understand this article but to
participate in the culture of the
English-speaking world we will analyze
each paragraph I will take detailed
notes and you can download a free pdf of
these notes by clicking the link in the
description
finally at the end of the lesson I will
read the article one more time a little
faster at a natural speed so you can
focus on my pronunciation and intonation
let's get started here's the title of
today's article Sony to lay off 900 at
PlayStation as tough times for the video
games industry
persist here we have the phrasal verb
lay off this means to stop employing
someone because there's no work for them
to do this is different than when
someone gets fired usually you get fired
because you've done something wrong you
get laid off if a company decides to
close or downsize to reduce costs we
have a grammatical structure that's very
common in news articles Sony 2 layoff
900 it's very common to omit the verb be
in the titles of news articles so this
is a reduced form of Sony is to lay off
900 this sentence uses B plus the two
infinitive as a formal way to announce
that something is planned to happen in
the
future it sounds more official and
professional than just saying Sony will
lay off
900 some more examples would be
the president is to make an announcement
this week or the author is to publish a
new book next month tough times is an
adjective noun
collocation a collocation is a group of
words that are frequently used together
in this case the adjective tough and the
noun times create a very common phrase
tough times usually refer to a difficult
economic
period persist is a very useful verb
which in this context means that
something bad continues to exist or
happen if you're a fan of video games
like me then you are aware that tough
times persist for many companies in this
industry right
now let's read the first paragraph
Electronics giant Sony announced on
Tuesday that it will be cutting 900 jobs
or 8% in PlayStation's Global
Workforce the layoffs will impact all
regions for Sony interactive
entertainment according to the
PlayStation press release with its
in-house London Studio responsible for
the competitive singing video game
singstar closing
entirely here a giant refers to a large
successful company that is well well
known in its industry Sony is a giant in
the field of electronics in this context
cut means to reduce the amount of
something we're using the future
continuous tense here will be cutting
we're emphasizing that the action will
happen over a longer period of time not
all at once well hopefully not all at
once a Workforce is the group of people
people who work in a particular company
layoffs should look familiar because
we've already seen the phrasal verb to
lay off a layoff is the event or
occasion when this action happens a
press release is a company's official
statement that gives information to
newspapers TV programs and radio
stations if something is inhouse or if
something is done inhouse that means
it's created by the employees in the
offices of a company unfortunately these
days it's rare to find a company that
does everything inhouse it's usually
cheaper to contract out certain tasks
let's keep reading these are incredibly
talented people who have been part of
our success and we are very grateful for
their contributions wrote Jim Ryan
president and CEO of Sony interactive
entertainment however the industry has
changed immensely and we need to Future
ready ourselves to set the business up
for what lies ahead another common
collocation this time with the adverb
incredibly and the adjective talented
the adverb immensely means very much or
a lot for example we enjoyed the
performance immensely or the company has
become immensely
popular Future Ready is a verb in this
context it means to make or plan
something so that a company can quickly
identify changes and respond to Future
challenges you'll often see this as an
adjective to be Future Ready basically
Sony wants to make sure that it
continues to make as much money as
possible even if there are Big Industry
changes in the future hello I like money
here we have a common phrasal verb set
up which means to
prepare usually you set something up for
something in some formal contexts the
verb lie plus an adverb or preposition
means to exist so lie ahead another
cocation means exist in the future no
one knows what lies
ahead next
paragraph the workforce reduction
follows the company slashing sales
forecasts for the year and Naomi
matsuoka Sony's senior vice president
saying the PlayStation 5 console was
approaching roing the latter end of its
life cycle according to Bloomberg
Bloomberg is another popular News
company in the US slash is a verb that
you hear a lot in advertisements and
newspapers the literal meaning of Slash
is to cut something with a knife or a
sword in a very violent way but here
slashing means to greatly reduce an
amount or a price a forecast is a
prediction of what will probably happen
in the future based on current
information or data most of the time
this word refers to a weather forecast
or an economic forecast here we have a
formal adjective latter which means
close to the end of a time period for
example the couple plans to get married
in the latter half of next year
next Ryan had already announced in
September plans to retire in March as
Sony group Corporation president hiroi
totoi the Chief Operating Officer and
Chief Financial Officer will take the
Reigns as interim
CEO had already announced this is the
past perfect tense this is typically a
comparative tense the FOC focus is on
the relationship between two events in
the past one event is a reference point
the event that happened further in the
past or the event that happened first is
stated in the past perfect tense in this
sentence we are comparing when Ryan
announced his plans to retire with our
reference point which is Sony's recent
layoff announcement this emphasizes the
fact that Ryan's plans to retire
happened at an earlier time in the past
it's important to note that in American
English the past perfect tense is much
more common in formal writing in this
situation native speakers often use the
simple past in everyday
conversation sing Ryan already announced
is Perfectly Natural if you're
interested in a more detailed lesson on
the differences between the simple
tenses and the perfect tenses please let
me know in the comments the expression
take the Reigns means to take control of
an organization or a government rains
are the straps that you put on a horse's
head to control it interim means
temporary an interim president or an
interim solution is one that is only
used until something final can be
made next the new CEO will be facing an
entire Tech sector in upheaval as
industry Giants laid off
5,500 workers within the first 2 weeks
of 2024
alone this is a very important verb for
speaking and writing to face
if you face a difficult situation that
means that a problem is going to affect
you and you must deal with it in a
direct way a sector is a specific area
of an economy there's the tech sector
the tourism sector the agricultural
sector Etc and upheaval is a major
change that causes a lot of problems
anger and confusion you often hear this
word in collocations like social
upheaval economic upheaval massive
upheaval
Etc we have an interesting use of the
word alone as an adverb this is a more
formal way to say only or without
including anything else for example it's
impossible to learn how to speak another
language with textbooks
alone let's keep going specifically the
video game industry has been seeing jobs
Hemorrhage from 2023 into this year as
well with epic games cutting 830 jobs
last September and 10 cense Riot games
laying off 11% of its Workforce in
January has been seen this is the
present perfect continuous tense so this
started in the past continues today and
will probably continue for a while into
the future okay this is a very
interesting word a hemorrhage as a noun
is a serious medical condition in which
someone is bleeding a lot and they can't
stop or control it but in this context
we're obviously not talking about blood
the verb to Hemorrhage means to lose a
lot of people or a lot of money very
quickly and you can't stop this from
happening echoing the leadership of
those other game companies Ryan wrote In
His email to employees we had to step
back look at our business holistically
and move forward focusing on the
long-term
sustainability of the company and
delivering the best experiences possible
for our
community usually if a sound Echoes you
hear the sound again echo echo
echo but in this context to Echo
something means to repeat what someone
else has done or to be similar to
something that happened
before step back
this phrasal verb means to stop doing
something so you can think about it
clearly and make a better decision if
you do something holistically you
consider something or someone as one
whole not as separate parts so the CEO
wanted to make a holistic decision that
would benefit the future of the entire
company here we have the adjective long
longterm a long-term plan or a long-term
goal is something that considers what
will happen in the very distant future
the opposite would be
shortterm
sustainability is a noun that comes from
the adjective
sustainable if something is sustainable
it is able to continue for a long time
we have another verb being used in an
interesting way deliver if you do
something that you promised or something
that other people expected or wanted
then you deliver or deliver on something
for example our boss gives us a lot of
freedom but he expects us to deliver on
our projects or maybe you watched the
first movie in a series and you loved it
but then you watched the second movie
and it didn't meet your
expectations it failed to
deliver Sony group Corporation stock
fell less than 1% following the news on
Tuesday a stock is the percent of a
company that someone owns you can buy
and sell stocks also if the value of a
stock increases or decreases then we say
that the stock Rises or the stock
Falls now I'll read the whole article at
a natural speed from start to finish use
this as an opportunity to read along
with me and practice your listening and
pronunciation Sony to lay off 900 at
PlayStation as tough times for the video
games industry persist Electronics giant
Sony announced on Tuesday that it will
be cutting 900 jobs or 8% in
PlayStation's Global Workforce the
layoffs will impact all regions for Sony
interactive entertainment according to
the PlayStation press release with its
in-house London Studio responsible for
the competitive singing video game
singstar closing
entirely these are incredibly talented
people who have been part of our success
and we are very grateful for their
contributions wrote Jim Ryan president
and CEO of Sony interactive
entertainment however the industry has
changed immensely and we need to Future
ready ourselves to set the business up
for what lies ahead the workforce
reduction follows the company slashing
sales forecasts for the year and Naomi
matsuoka Sony's senior vice president
saying the PlayStation 5 console was
approaching the latter end of its life
cycle according to Bloomberg Ryan had
already announced in September plans to
retire in March as Sony group
Corporation
president heroki totoi the Chief
Operating Officer and Chief Financial
Officer will take the Reigns as interim
CEO the new CEO will be facing an entire
Tech sector in upheaval as industry
Giants laid off 5,500 workers within the
first 2 weeks of 2024 alone specifically
the video game industry has been seeing
jobs Hemorrhage from 2023 into this year
as well with epic games cutting 830 jobs
last September and 10 cents Riot games
laying off 11% of its Workforce in
January echoing the leadership of those
other game companies Ryan wrote In His
email to employees we had to step back
look at our business holistically and
move forward Focus in on the long-term
sustainability of the company and
delivering the best experiences possible
for our community Sony group Corporation
stock fell less than 1% following the
news on
Tuesday now I have some homework for you
use some of today's vocabulary words to
answer the following questions number
one why are so many companies in the
tech sector facing low sales and laying
off their
employees number two what do you think
lies ahead for Sony and other video game
companies leave your answers in the
comments remember to download the free
PDF to get the article and all of
today's notes if you enjoyed this lesson
please like this video And subscribe to
my channel thank you so much for
watching I'm Gina this is your world in
English and I'll see you in the next
lesson
[Music]
bye